[MUSIC]
Hello, I've come back in my
time machine to give you one
piece of information about a bug we found.
And this bug is perpetuated throughout the
entire course, but I've come back here to
show you what it is, so
that you can not have that bug yourself.
It's a very rare sort of bug,
it's not happening to a lot of people.
It's not happened to us as instructors
as we've been prototyping and
creating the course.
But it's happening to enough
people that we want to come and
make sure that you know about it.
So with our Singleton patent, we've just
gone through this in the previous video.
We're finding a particular
type of something,
in this instance my class
is called Singleton.
So we're saying if there's more than
one Singleton, then destroy yourself,
otherwise don't destroy yourself.
Now what we've finding through lots,
many many hours of digging into this bug,
which is part of the game development fun,
as a side note.
Is my teammate and
fellow instructor Sam has helped
us work through the problem,
why this is happening.
So this is the script
execution order in Unity.
This is what happens first and
second and the whole process and
what cycles, and
this is what's happening per frame.
That you can see when we look for
it, OnDestroy's happening at
the end of this first frame.
So it's happening sometimes when other
things have gone and called that script.
So this line,
we still need to destroy this game object,
so this Singleton knows there
should only be one of me.
So that's all cool.
But sometimes, some other scripts that are
relying on there only being one Singleton,
are having some issues.
Because there, for a very split second,
a tiny tiny amount of time,
there are two until it gets destroyed.
So because this is being called
a little bit later than we thought,
like a fraction of a moment later.
We need to do something before that to
make sure that this very instant on Awake,
this thing can't cause any mischief.
And the way we do that is
we make this Inactive.
So just an example, I've set up a little
example saying this is my camera.
If I click the check mark, it's active,
but unclick the check mark, it's inactive.
The moment I make it inactive,
then most of the things on this
camera just won't work, won't happen.
And that's what we want to and
wanna do when we're destroying it.
We wanna have it not have an impact.
So what we're saying here is,
gameObject.SetActive(false); and
I want you to implement this now into
the Singleton that we have just worked on.
So find Destroy, the line above Destroy,
set the game object to not active,
so SetActive is false.
And I want you to do this from now on
anytime we implement the Singleton patent
and you see me type in okay, now let
us Destroy, then also put in this line.
Hopefully you remember it, but
if you have any bugs, any issues,
any null reference exceptions when
you're implementing the Singleton.
Then I know you'll remember this and
will come back and
find this one line if you don't
remember the one line itself.
Unfortunately, I can't go and re-record
every single video that we've got this in.
So you'll see from now on,
you'll only see Destroy.
You won't see this one particular line
just cuz all the videos are re-recorded.
But I wanted to come back in time to right
now to show you that this is the solution
if you're having any issues with your
Singleton and the way that it's setup.
Hopefully, this should solve them for you.
Okay, great stuff.
Back to regular programming.
See you in the next video.